 !"№$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\]^_`abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
{|}~АБВГДЕЁЖЗИЙКЛМНОПРСТУФХЦЧШЩЪЫЬЭЮЯабвгдеёжзийклмнопрстуфхцчшщъыьэюя

into Winston’s eyes, felt his pulse, laid an ear against his
chest, tapped here and there, then he nodded to O’Brien.
‘Again,’ said O’Brien.
The pain flowed into Winston’s body. The needle must be
at seventy, seventy-five. He had shut his eyes this time. He
knew that the fingers were still there, and still four. All that
mattered was somehow to stay alive until the spasm was
over. He had ceased to notice whether he was crying out or
not. The pain lessened again. He opened his eyes. O’Brien
had drawn back the lever.
‘How many fingers, Winston?’
‘Four. I suppose there are four. I would see five if I could.
I am trying to see five.’
‘Which do you wish: to persuade me that you see five, or
really to see them?’
‘Really to see them.’
‘Again,’ said O’Brien.
Perhaps the needle was eighty—ninety. Winston could
not intermittently remember why the pain was happening.
Behind his screwed-up eyelids a forest of fingers seemed to
be moving in a sort of dance, weaving in and out, disap-
pearing behind one another and reappearing again. He was
trying to count them, he could not remember why. He knew
only that it was impossible to count them, and that this was
somehow due to the mysterious identity between five and
four. The pain died down again. When he opened his eyes
it was to find that he was still seeing the same thing. In-
numerable fingers, like moving trees, were still streaming
past in either direction, crossing and recrossing. He shut
Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com
317his eyes again.
‘How many fingers am I holding up, Winston?’
‘I don’t know. I don’t know. You will kill me if you do that
again. Four, five, six—in all honesty I don’t know.’
‘Better,’ said O’Brien.
A needle slid into Winston’s arm. Almost in the same in-
stant a blissful, healing warmth spread all through his body.
The pain was already half-forgotten. He opened his eyes
and looked up gratefully at O’Brien. At sight of the heavy,
lined face, so ugly and so intelligent, his heart seemed to
turn over. If he could have moved he would have stretched
out a hand and laid it on O’Brien’s arm. He had never loved
him so deeply as at this moment, and not merely because
he had stopped the pain. The old feeling, that at bottom it
did not matter whether O’Brien was a friend or an enemy,
had come back. O’Brien was a person who could be talked
to. Perhaps one did not want to be loved so much as to be
understood. O’Brien had tortured him to the edge of luna-
cy, and in a little while, it was certain, he would send him
to his death. It made no difference. In some sense that went
deeper than friendship, they were intimates: somewhere or
other, although the actual words might never be spoken,
there was a place where they could meet and talk. O’Brien
was looking down at him with an expression which suggest-
ed that the same thought might be in his own mind. When

1.  Сформулируйте определение окрестности точки x ∈ R
Окрестностью S(x0) точки x0, называется любой интервал содержащий эту точку

2.  Сформулируйте определение ε-окрестности точки x ∈ R
ε - окрестности точки  s(x, ε) точки x0, называется интервал с центром в точке x0 и длиной в 2ε

3.  Сформулируйте определение окрестности +∞
Окрестностью +∞ называется любой интервал вида: (a, +∞), где любой a ∈ R

4.  Сформулируйте определение окрестности −∞
Окрестностью -∞ называется любой интервал вида: (-∞, -a), где любой a ∈ R

5.  Сформулируйте определение окрестности ∞
Окрестность ∞ называется U двух окрестностей +∞ и -∞

6.  Сформулируйте определение предела последовательности
Число a называется пределом числовой последовательности {Xn} тогда и только тогда, когда для любого положительного числа  ε найдётся натуральное число N(ε) ∈ N, зависящее от ε, такое что, как только порядковый номер численной последовательности n станет n>N(ε), то последует неравенство |Xn - a|<ε

7.  Сформулируйте определение сходящейся последовательности
Последовательность имеющая предел называется сходящейся

8.  Сформулируйте определение ограниченной последовательности
Последовательность {Xn} называется ограниченной, если существуют такие m ∈R и M ∈R, такой, что любого n ∈N выполняется неравенство m<=Xn<=M

9.  Сформулируйте определение монотонной последовательности
все последовательности числа a, именно возрастающие, убывающие, невозрастающие, неубывающие

10.  Сформулируйте определение возрастающей последовательности
последовательность чисел называется возростающей, если Xn+1 > Xn для любого n ∈N
{1, 2, 3, 4, 5,...}